Carl Sagan.
Congratulations, sir, on a wonderful book.
Tell me a little bit, if you would, do you see this as a sequel to Cosmos?
It seems to me to be an independent project altogether, but... Well, you certainly don't have to have read Cosmos to read and understand Pale Blue Dot, but in the sense of continuing the story about what we've learned about our solar system and beyond, mainly by spacecraft,
And looking at the big picture of the connection between humans and the cosmos, it is, in a way, a sequel.
Okay.
I have to say that the illustrations, the photographs here, are just absolutely wonderful.
And they really do... They reproduce well for something published in the United States.
The quality of the reproduction I was really impressed by.
I've spent a lot of time I've picked up every one of those pictures.
And you'd be amazed how many gorgeous pictures I didn't use.
What an enormous portfolio of wonderful, dazzling images that has come out of the space program.
And I think what is really significant is how recent so many of these are.
And very early in the book, when you give us the figure that's 70 new worlds, it's an astonishing number, isn't it?
It really is.
There's only one moment in human history when, for the first time, we examine, close up, the other worlds that share our solar system with us.
And we are privileged to be alive at that moment.
No other generation has that footprint.
Towards the back of the book, you show the footprint of the Moon and you say, well, if undisturbed...
It will be intact for a million years or more.
You really get a sense of time, don't you?
One of the many benefits of astronomy.
It gives you a sense of our coordinates in space and time and the conceit that we are at the center of the Universe and that we have been here since the beginning, both for
heavily when confronted with the reality of modern science.
I didn't realize that this was your suggestion to have the camera pointed back.
I was an experimenter on the Voyager 1 and 2 spacecraft.
This was something I had wanted to do from shortly after launch in 1977.
Finally, I got to do it.
What I like so much about it is that
From a scientific standpoint, it's basically, it has very little value.
But I think from an intellectual's standpoint, it really does put the whole thing into perspective, doesn't it?
Yeah, just what I had imagined would be the case.
It seems so beautiful, so fragile, that baby blue.
I don't understand that sunbeam, though.
It's simple.
You know how if you look at a light bulb and squint, you see little rays coming out of the light bulb?
Right.
You can manipulate the rays by squinting.
Okay.
Well, it's just that.
There was an object on the spacecraft between the camera and the Earth.
I see.
And so it produced that diffraction spike.
And if you waited a little bit for the geometry change a little bit, then the spike would be off in a different direction.
Just by good luck we had it.
It's astonishing, isn't it?
And I guess when it came time to title this book, and of course that does give the whole book, I think it's the central metaphor, doesn't it?
Yeah, that was certainly my thing.
Yeah.
I guess another reason I love it is because it seems to suggest, pardon me, just basically what you're about.
I mean, you're a scientist, of course, primarily, but you never seem to lose your enthusiasm.
You never seem to, the sense of wonder and awe seems to be with you throughout everything you do.
In some other job, it might not have been the case, but how can you be out there exploring the planets and not be subfused with wonder and awe?
You have to be a block of wood not to feel that.
You also mentioned early on that you basically spent a year on Mars, and this kind of follows what you just said.
I mean, you are exploring planets, aren't you, even though you're Earth-bound, so to speak.
Yeah, and that's...
That's because robots are so capable.
And as I describe in the book, as virtual reality and artificial intelligence start moving to their own, everybody will be able to explore planets merely worlds.
No more than those worlds with robot explorers and without human explorers.
um also give me some uh if you would if you talk a bit about you know your the anxiety that you have that this is all being just just abandoned uh you do make a pitch in the concluding chapters of the book for uh the uh yes yes was uh you know for humans basically clearly the high point uh mythic achievement uh
and something that will be remembered a thousand years from now when no one will have any idea what Gatton stands for, who the Speaker of the House was in the last few years of the 20th century.
When things like that are confined to dusty archives, when nobody remembers what's happening in Somalia or Bosnia or Haiti, people will remember Apollo 4.
the moment that humans first set foot on the world.
And they'll remember all the mariners and Vikings and voyagers that swept through the entire solar system, gave us the preliminary reconnaissance of the region in which we live.
But Apollo served mainly political purposes.
It was mainly about their arms race and beat the Russians and intimidate other nations.
As soon as we did beat the Russians, the program ended.
There was no continuing political purpose for it.
And while we still have a reasonably vigorous robotic program, the human program, the so-called manned program, I don't like the word because they're women astronauts, the human program is in a very desultory state.
We're constantly launching shuttle
200 miles up with a crew of five or six or seven in a tin can.
And they launch a communications satellite which could just as well and much more safely be launched by an unmanned booster.
And then we hear the newts are reproducing nicely, thank you, or the tomato plant didn't grow.
And then they come down and they say, another Triumph NASA exploration.
Well, this is not exploration.
This is driving a bus.
And 200 miles, 200 miles is...
I mean, Boston is farther from New York than 200 miles.
That's right, isn't it?
It's about the same, yeah.
I'm a 180-mile drive myself.
Imagine somebody driving a bus back and forth between Boston and New York for a few dozen times and having the delusion that that was exploration.
Whereas, if NASA had continued...
to explore other worlds.
If we had gone to near-Earth asteroids, if we had been able to go to Mars, public enthusiasm for this kind of exploration would be unabated.
I'm not saying it's NASA's fault.
The directions come from the top.
But we are not doing anything like exploration, and exploration is what is fundamental.
What would you like to see, I mean, in your lifetime, realistically?
And that's just an open-ended question.
In terms of your technological orientation?
Out there, yeah.
Or scientific discoveries in space?
All of the above.
But basically, from out there, what would you like us?
I'd like to see a vigorous program.
of monitoring the environmental health of the Earth and that we are about to move into that epoch.
I'd like to see a serious inventory of all near-Earth asteroids that might one day hit the Earth and the big ones could threaten the global civilization.
It's just foolish of us not knowing.
Well, coincidentally, didn't we just have one come by a couple of weeks ago or a couple of days ago?
Yeah, that's right.
But the real lesson this year is the impact of comet Shoemaker leaving mine with Jupiter, in which we saw one kilometer object slamming into Jupiter and making disturbances on an Earth-sized scale.
Wow.
And that's a reminder that a one kilometer comet slamming into the Earth can produce global environmental consequences.
serious natures.
So this goes beyond politics, doesn't it, and national pride and all that other?
Exactly.
And all nations have an equal stake.
And in fact, I believe that in the long term, this is one of the reasons that forces our end, that requires us to have a significant presence in space.
So that when we identify one of these, it's on an impact trajectory.
And sooner or later, we won't.
that we have the ability to do something.
I would like to see a more vigorous program of robotic exploration.
I'd like to see us moving more swiftly into intimate cooperation with the Russians, the Europeans, and the Japanese in joint space programs on behalf of the human species in a time of declining budgets.
with this enormous technological and intellectual capacity of those other nations.
It's just foolish of us to keep imagining going on and on.
And I'd like to see the human space program not accelerated, but just focused on the long-term goal of humans living in the space environment, and that we don't do that.
So that's what I would...
what I would say, programmatically.
In terms of discoveries, what... In terms of discoveries, I can tell you what the three most interesting possibilities for me are, all of which are technically, you know, I grasp and may happen tomorrow or something.
First of all, I'd like to know, is the universe open or closed?
Will we...
The galaxies continue to recede from each other until the universe is essentially depopulated.
Or will the expansion slow stop be replaced by a contracting universe?
And this has enormous philosophical and geological implications.
Secondly, and that's within our grasp, the ability to make that decision, that determination.
Secondly, I'd like to see a comprehensive inventory of the planetary systems around the nearest few hundred stars.
And we're just on the verge of that.
We have a bona fide, the first bona fide extrasolar planetary system.
That's exciting, isn't it?
Yeah.
And, you know, if you don't have any other systems, you don't know how...
Typical yours is you don't know much about your own origins because who knows if it was a fluke of some sort.
But if you have a few dozen or a few hundred other systems, then you can compare.
And also there's the obvious question of are there Earth-like worlds there and is there life on them?
And even that could be determined remotely, spectroscopic.
Wow.
And then finally, something I've worked on for a long time,
use of large radio telescopes to see if anyone's sending us a message.
Speaking of telescopes, of course, you just mentioned radio telescopes, but you might give me a comment on the extraordinary success recently of Hubble.
Yeah.
That is really exciting, isn't it?
The Discovery a Week Club.
It's amazing, isn't it?
Not trivial, but just fundamental, basic stuff.
And some of it just doesn't, you know, even make it into the papers because how many major discoveries can they prepare?
Yeah, it's... And hats off to the human crews who fitted the corrective contact lens.
That's amazing, isn't it?
That may actually be the...
one way to go, too.
I mean, in tandem with other ways, I would think, is to keep... I don't know what the lifespan of Hubble is, but... Oh, it's years, and it's refurbishable.
Is that right?
Yeah.
That's great.
So once it's...
Up there, of course, the book itself, I have to say, speaks most eloquently for itself.
I really don't have to take up too much of your time today.
I did want to get some quotes, which we have.
It's foolish to ask you questions about things that you've already...
But if you could let me go a little earlier, I'd appreciate it, just because I have to catch up on you.
Okay, well, you know what, I think... I'm happy to talk with you a little more.
I think I do have plenty of quotes, and again, we have the book, and it's just a pleasure to talk to you.
Okay, I do have one question, if you don't mind, and it's not mine, but it's one of my newspapers.
my newspaper in Allentown, The Morning Call, and he asked me if I would ask you how you respond to the beating that you get from people like Ruck Schlembach.
And I never listened to the show.
I don't know what he's talking about.
I'm deeply unaware of any substantive criticism.
Yeah.
It doesn't mean anything.
I know we differ on his environmental issues.
And there are...
I'm happy to make a general question.
I don't understand what it is that conservatives are conserving if they're not vitally interested in the environment that sustains all of us.
Great.
That's a wonderful quote.
Excellent.
Doctor, I'm going to let you go catch your plane.
Okay.
Thank you very much for your time.
Terrific, Doctor.
Take care.
Thank you, sir.
Bye-bye.